<!-- loio48d939076f6243d0bbdfaf5b8789a946 -->

| loio |
| -----|
| 48d939076f6243d0bbdfaf5b8789a946 |

<div id="loio">

view on: [demo kit nightly build](https://openui5nightly.hana.ondemand.com/topic/48d939076f6243d0bbdfaf5b8789a946) | [demo kit latest release](https://sdk.openui5.org/topic/48d939076f6243d0bbdfaf5b8789a946)</div>

## sap.m

This library contains the most important controls for building a user interface that is responsive to any device.

> ### Note:  
> The following sections only provide additional information for some of the controls. For a complete list of all controls and their documentation, see the [API Reference](https://sdk.openui5.org/api) and the [Samples](https://sdk.openui5.org/controls). 

-   **[App and Nav Container](App_and_Nav_Container_a4afb13.md "Apps are often composed of several pages and the user can drill-down to detail pages and
		go back up again. This is often visualized by horizontal slide animations. OpenUI5 supports this pattern by
		providing the sap.m.App and sap.m.NavContainer controls,
		which handle the navigation between the pages.")**  
Apps are often composed of several pages and the user can drill-down to detail pages and go back up again. This is often visualized by horizontal slide animations. OpenUI5 supports this pattern by providing the `sap.m.App` and `sap.m.NavContainer` controls, which handle the navigation between the pages.
-   **[Facet Filter](Facet_Filter_c6c3821.md "Facet filters (sap.m.FacetFilter) support users in finding the
		information they need from potentially very large data sets.")**  
Facet filters \(`sap.m.FacetFilter`\) support users in finding the information they need from potentially very large data sets.
-   **[Feed Input](Feed_Input_0ec25a1.md "With this control you can enter and post text for a new feed entry.")**  
With this control you can enter and post text for a new feed entry.
-   **[Feed List Item](Feed_List_Item_14a9900.md "This control provides a set of properties for a feed, such as text, sender
		information and timestamp.")**  
This control provides a set of properties for a feed, such as text, sender information and timestamp.
-   **[Flex Box](Flex_Box_674890e.md "The sap.m.FlexBox control allows to develop layouts which adjust to the
		available space and avoid unused space or overflow.")**  
The `sap.m.FlexBox` control allows to develop layouts which adjust to the available space and avoid unused space or overflow.
-   **[Generic Tile](Generic_Tile_a1998ec.md "The GenericTile control is the basic concept that displays any kind
		of content within a tile comprising for example news, feeds, images, micro charts, or
		numeric content.")**  
The `GenericTile` control is the basic concept that displays any kind of content within a tile comprising for example news, feeds, images, micro charts, or numeric content.
-   **[Image](Image_f86dbe9.md "Additional information on sap.m.Image")**  
Additional information on `sap.m.Image`
-   **[List, List Item, and Table](List_List_Item_and_Table_295e44b.md "sap.m.List and sap.m.Table both inherit from the
		abstract sap.m.ListBase and provide the features used for lists and
		tables.")**  
`sap.m.List` and `sap.m.Table` both inherit from the abstract `sap.m.ListBase` and provide the features used for lists and tables.
-   **[Message Handling](Message_Handling_f5df293.md "Recommended guidelines for message handling. ")**  
Recommended guidelines for message handling.
-   **[Message Popover](Message_Popover_52824a6.md "Message Popover is used to display a summarized list of different types of messages
		(errors, warnings, success and information). It provides a handy and systemized way to
		navigate and explore details for every message.")**  
Message Popover is used to display a summarized list of different types of messages \(errors, warnings, success and information\). It provides a handy and systemized way to navigate and explore details for every message.
-   **[PDF Viewer](PDF_Viewer_cd80a8b.md "PDF viewer can be used to display PDF documents within your app, which enables your
		users to preview PDF documents before printing or downloading them.")**  
PDF viewer can be used to display PDF documents within your app, which enables your users to preview PDF documents before printing or downloading them.
-   **[Personalization](Personalization_a3c3c5e.md "The sap.m.p13n.Popup control in the sap.m.p13n
		namespace provides a dialog or popover for personalizing table content, such as selecting
		columns and adapting their order.")**  
The `sap.m.p13n.Popup` control in the `sap.m.p13n` namespace provides a dialog or popover for personalizing table content, such as selecting columns and adapting their order.
-   **[Scrolling](Scrolling_66029f6.md "Because of limited size of mobile devices, scrolling is an essential topic in mobile
		user experience. Smooth and easy scrolling is important for user acceptance of mobile
		applications. ")**  
Because of limited size of mobile devices, scrolling is an essential topic in mobile user experience. Smooth and easy scrolling is important for user acceptance of mobile applications.
-   **[Sliders](Sliders_84ec82e.md "")**  

-   **[Split App](Split_App_eedfe79.md "You can use the sap.m.SplitApp control to ensure that your UI
		automatically adapts to the size available on the respective device. ")**  
You can use the `sap.m.SplitApp` control to ensure that your UI automatically adapts to the size available on the respective device.
-   **[Team Calendar](Team_Calendar_acae0f2.md "The Team Calendar application demonstrates the integration between sap.m.PlanningCalendar and
			sap.m.SinglePlanningCalendar controls, sharing the same data source. It can be used as a starting point for building a
		complex application with the full functionality that these controls offer (adding, editing, deleting and moving of appointments,
		etc.).")**  
The **Team Calendar** application demonstrates the integration between `sap.m.PlanningCalendar` and `sap.m.SinglePlanningCalendar` controls, sharing the same data source. It can be used as a starting point for building a complex application with the full functionality that these controls offer \(adding, editing, deleting and moving of appointments, etc.\).
-   **[Text](Text_f94deb4.md "The sap.m.Text control allows you to display longer texts in your
		app, with the possibility to manage the number of lines, the text wrapping, and the
		visualization of line breaks and spacing.")**  
The `sap.m.Text` control allows you to display longer texts in your app, with the possibility to manage the number of lines, the text wrapping, and the visualization of line breaks and spacing.
-   **[Upload Collection \(Deprecated\)](Upload_Collection_Deprecated_124ee13.md "Upload Collection is a list control for attachment management that
		provides the ability to upload, edit or delete attachments.")**  
`Upload Collection` is a list control for attachment management that provides the ability to upload, edit or delete attachments.
-   **[URL Helper](URL_Helper_4f1c107.md "With sap.m.URLHelper you can easily trigger native mobile phone
		applications such as e-mail, telephone, and text messages. ")**  
With `sap.m.URLHelper` you can easily trigger native mobile phone applications such as e-mail, telephone, and text messages.

**Related Information**  


[Supported Library Combinations](Supported_Library_Combinations_363cd16.md "OpenUI5 provides a set of JavaScript and CSS libraries, which can be combined in an application using the combinations that are supported.")

[Browser and Platform Support](Browser_and_Platform_Support_74b59ef.md "Browser and platform support for the OpenUI5 libraries on iOS, Android, macOS, and Windows platforms.")

[API Reference: `sap.m`](https://sdk.openui5.org/api/sap.m)

